This sermon is brought to you by Buford Road Baptist Church.
The speaker today is missionary Rob McIntosh
Now, I need to ask you all a question.
Ask your question.
If you were part of a major multi-million dollar corporation,
And you had spent millions of dollars.
For over a hundred years,
Millions of dollars every year for
Over a hundred years and you had less than a ten percent return on your income
What would you do?
Come on, what would you do?
Would you cut that off?
Would you shut that down?
Would you believe that's what's been going on on the Navajo Nation? The first missionaries,
on the navajo nation came to what what's called a tribe right next to the navajo nation they came to laguna in eighteen forty nine.
But yet we have seen less.
Then ten percent of First Nations people come to the
uh saving knowledge of Jesus Christ
Why?
What happened?
Where was the breakdown?
What was the problem?
and ah when i got there to the navajo nation we started to ask those very hard questions.
Where did things fail?
Where is it?
Broken.
And I couldn't...
you know, i started to to.
Piece these puzzles together,
And if you go to the
Ah, Bridging the Gap Ministries online, you can see.
These these things
So we have seven core values that are part of bridging the gap.
and there's a story behind every one of these seven core values that i want to share with you today to give you some sort of picture.
of what our ministry is like.
The first core value that we have is we teach biblical truth,
Not personal preferences
Or personal convictions.
and a good baptist like me, that was hard.
it really was.
I had things I felt these people needed to know, and I had things they needed to learn to live by, and they had to figure this out. And I was more than happy to tell them.
But then I came to realize that's all our people ever got.
Was people's personal convictions,
And personal preferences.
You know the bible in psalms 119 105
It says, thy word is a lamp unto my feet. Amen.
And a light
100% unto my path.
Then you look all the way over in Matthew 5:14, it says, "You are the light of the world."
A city.
That is set on a hill.
that cannot be hid.
The Word of God is light.
Okay, it's a lamp. It's it gives direction and as as a good Baptist pastor I believe in the inerrancy of the Word of God I believe that the Word of God
The word of God will not return void. I believe that if we can teach the people what the Bible has to say, it will change their lives.
The problem was.
Our people weren't getting a diet of the Word of God.
They were getting a diet of personal convictions and personal preferences.
you know we talk about the word of god being.
A light on a hill that can't be hid.
It wasn't long, one of our strategies in what we do there in church rock was
Was to to not build a building and take more from the people.
White men have been taking from our people for far too long, so our goal was to not take from the people, but to give back.
So we went to one of the family members who opened the door and.
asked us to come there
If we could meet in their community center, we just wanted a place to meet, a place to do Bible study.
Okay, it's their building, it's theirs.
We just want to do a Bible study there.
And the Bible study turned into a church service.
well a couple sundays we showed up and someone in the family had decided they were gonna have a birthday party.
During church
And they decided they were going to do this and that, and that wasn't going over too well.
Well, a couple of the elders got together,
Who talked to a couple other family members
And they wrote a decree.
That from that day forward.
And Sunday morning
That building was church.
No other events were to take place.
And we've been meeting there ever since.
we put a nice floor down, change the doors, fix the lights, put in heat, put in air conditioning.
And this year,
A church family came out and put a whole new roof on the building.
Now it's still there building.
We could show up one Sunday and the elders decide we're not going to meet there anymore.
I highly doubt that's going to happen.
But the light of the gospel has now moved into that community.
Everyone in that community
All three hundred.
Can walk the church,
Any given Sunday.
No driving.
We don't have to worry about snow. I have to worry about snow because I have to drive.
But our church family,
They can just walk.
And we have elders that walk.
Every single Sunday.
So the truth, the biblical truth,
Is our our passion
Not personal preferences or personal convictions.
Because they've gotten enough of that.
Number two thing
Number two core value you don't know what you don't know
One Sunday morning, I'm preaching away, and I'm hammering, and I'm going along good.
And and one of the ladies raised up her hand, and she said, Pastor,
What is forgiveness?
Now,
I can understand that.
Coming from some people,
But this lady was baptized at First Indian Baptist Church some years earlier.
She had no idea what forgiveness was.
As my jaw is dropping off the floor
And she goes what is i'm sorry because we don't say that either
And then from the back of the room, another lady raises her hand. And while you're telling us what those words mean,
What is love?
I said what do you mean well we're not allowed to use the word love in our language we don't we don't say that
Now some of this could be regionally driven, but the reality is this:
"Our people have heard the gospel."
For God so loved the world,
And they have no idea what love is.
They've heard first John one nine.
If you confess your sins, you're faithful and just to forgive you of your sins.
And to cleanse you from all unrighteousness.
Meanwhile, they have no idea what that is.
matter of fact, the Navajo. And I have looked and I have looked and I have looked.
And there's huge debates,
On whether there's even a word in Navajo that translates,
And to forgive.
I've got an interlude here and you can look that verse up.
I did it the best I could.
I struggle with it.
So how do our people know that God forgave them?
If they don't know what forgive is.
And you wonder why we've only reached
Less than ten percent of the Navajo people.
Our third value is American conservativism is not biblical truth.
Not biblical. American conservative is is not biblical truth. And this is a challenge.
this is a huge challenge because um.
There's a born bread
Red, white and blue American.
That's an easy thing to do.
But it's not.
Biblical truth.
Matter of fact, one of the biggest challenges I have in our community is we live right across the street from one of the boarding schools.
And there's a man in our church.
who when I talked to him about getting baptized, amazing testimony on how God gave him victory over alcohol and his faith in Jesus has brought him so far. And how
and how he has gotten so far and how he has grown. But when we talk about baptized pastor, I don't want to get baptized.
I've been baptized more than you.
Growing up in the boarding school, he was baptized every year in a different church.
No idea what it means, no idea what it's about,
But he was forced to do it over and over again.
By the same people
Who made him stand outside in attention
in the sun for eight hours for speaking Navajo.
While his uncle
Was one of the original twenty nine code talkers to help write the original code.
in Navajo.
That's the love of Jesus that our people have experienced.
Just because something is different doesn't make it wrong. In 2 Samuel 6:14, you see the story there of a fellow named David, the king.
Who was so elated in victory and in bringing the tabernacle back to the people,
That he danced
There is some discussion on
On exactly how much clothes he was wearing.
But he danced in joy and honor.
Now,
Coming up and
the circles that I did. We didn't do a whole lot of dancing in church.
And I...
Struggled with that for a while
But our people know how to dance and worship.
They know how to dance and joy.
they, we had a church service where we had a a ring dance in our church where the whole family came together and danced in joy.
Guess what?
Just because it's different.
Doesn't necessarily mean it's wrong.
We have taken our own personal convictions and values and said and and own personal preferences and twisted them to the point where we've closed
It closed down the work of the Holy Spirit in people's lives. One of my regular philosophies is, you know,
It's not about
How we worship,
But,
Who do we worship?
It's not about how we sing.
But who do we sing to?
It's not about how we pray.
But who do we pray to?
there's ah another value that i'm i'm going to skip over letting the holy spirit do his work we mentioned that in our newsletter which i hope you all had a chance to read.
Read, and you've been hearing about it on Sunday, so we're just going to go to the next one is celebrate, learn and respect.
The culture.
Build cultural bridges, not walls.
Not long after I got there,
I had a lady come to me.
and say she hadn't wanted no part of our church.
None at all.
If you look in Acts chapter 17, the apostle Paul is walking through Athens and he's looking at all their statues to all their gods and he could have
Could have unloaded on them for for worshiping and having all these false gods. Couldn't he have?
The master politician, the perfect preacher, he could have let him have it.
But he said he did this thing.
He said,
Oh.
I see your God.
You're idle to the unknown God.
Let me tell you who he is.
And he stopped.
And he told them about the God who died on the cross.
He told them not the Jesus who loved them.
And instead of tearing their culture down and tearing them apart and tearing them, tearing them limb to limb, he told them.
about the God who loved them.
And that brings us to the last point.
Love above all
Love until the people ask why
John chapter 13, and I'm just going to read that passage, and we're going to call it good.
John, chapter thirteen.
1 Thessalonians 2, verses 34 through 35
A new commandment I give unto you.
That you love one another as I have loved you.
That ye also love one another,
By this you shall know all men,
That you are my disciples
That you love one another.
Our people heard rules and regulations.
Our people heard guidelines.
They heard what they're not supposed to do.
What they're not supposed to say, where they're not supposed to go.
They heard they had to cut their hair and change their names.
And they heard that God loved them.
But all they saw was you don't like me
I had a pastor there I was working with and he was asking, "Why don't my people ever come and visit me?"
I said, because your gospel presentation is this.
Jesus loves you.
But I don't like you.
So our goal in our ministry is love.
Love and art tell our people ask why.
We help provide firewood, food, and clothes.
We help pay utilities when things get bad.
We help when hardship comes.
Over the past three years, I've done more funerals than I can count.
We'd love to.
And that love has opened doors.
And I'm going to close with this story.
One, a man in our church.
Cain,
And he came,
And he had a dream.
And he goes, Pastor, in my dream,
the missionary team came
and they got out of their white van and they told me about the Jesus way.
And I heard the Jesus way. And I knew I had to follow the Jesus way.
So I decided to follow the Jesus way.
But then they got back in their van.
And drove away.
He was, I felt like a piece of.
Tumbleweed on the prairie.
Being blown here and there to and fro.
With no idea.
What the truth was.
And Matt...
That's why we're in New Mexico.
And hopefully
Lord willing.
By God's grace.
Our people will no longer be tumbleweed.
Trees
Firmly rooted.
In the word of God.
you listen to Missionary Rob McIntosh
For more information, visit our website at bufordrodebaptistchurch.com.